So let's take a look at an example of inheritance.
So I'm going to simply copy and paste the class in the last lecture.
I'm going to call this L 14 for lecture 14, and I'm going to give it a name of inheritance like so.
And then click.
Okay.
So I'm going to open up that class and I'm going to remove this method, which we don't require, and
I'm just going to clear out the main method like so.
So the first thing I'm going to do.
So outside of these braces is I'm going to create a class within the class.
And to do this, I'm just going to type class.
And I'm going to call it vehicle.
And then with open and close embraces, like.
So the first thing I'm going to write is private.
String Mike equals and in double quotes, BMW with semicolon at the end.
So I have just created a private field called Make.
The next thing I'm going to do is create a method and this is going to be public string.
Get Mike.
Open and close in brackets and an open and close embrace.
And in now I'm just going to return.
Mike.
So when this method is called.
It's going to return the value of this field.
Then after that, I'm going to create another method called public void.
Rev.
And this method is simply going to use system.
Not out of print when.
And it's going to return them like so.
And I'm going to add a semicolon at the end.
Mr. Taylor.
I'm just going at that t and it's fine.
So now outside this class.
So after this end, brace.
I'm going to create another class and I'm going to call this class car.
But the key difference to this one is that it's going to use the extends keyword.
And it's going to extend the vehicle class like so.
And then I'm going to have another open and close embrace.
And inside this class, I'm going to create another filled private string model, and it's going to
equal the value free series.
It was semicolon at the end.
Now at the end of this, I'm going to create a method, public method called public string get model.
And this is simply against return.
The field model.
So I've created two additional classes here.
One which is called vehicle.
And another one called Car, which extends vehicle.
Okay.
So I'm going to go back to the main method at the top.
And in here I am going to do the following.
I'm going to create a new car object and I'm going to call it car object like so.
Equals new car.
And then with that object.
I am going to call a method called rev like so.
And then underneath this line, I'm going to use system dots out the print alone.
And inside this, I'm going to use the car object again.
I'm going to use the method get.
Mike.
And then Ong used the plus symbol with double quotes just to put a space in between the values.
The plus symbol again, can't object.
Dot get model.
And at the end of that line, I'm going to use a semicolon.
So I am going to say this class before I run it, let me just explain quickly what it's doing.
So I've created a new class called Vehicle, which has a field called Make, and that Mike Fields has
been assigned a valuable W a single a public method called get mike, which will turn the value of that
field.
And it's got another public method called ref, which system prints out the word room and console.
I've then got a car class and this car class extends this vehicle class.
But the car class itself has a field called model, which has been assigned the value of free service.
And it's also got a method called get model which returns the value of that field.
Now in the main method, I've created a car object called car object, and using that car object, I'm
using a method called ref, which belongs to the vehicle class.
I'm then printed out using system outthought print line.
I'm using the car object again, but this time to use a method called Get Mike, which is a method that
belongs to a vehicle.
And I'm using the car object to use get model, which is another method.
But at method belongs to the car class.
So let me try running this to see the output.
And you can see the room has been displayed and so has free BMW and free series.
So the key thing to understand here is that I've created a car object.
So it's a new car.
So I've created an object based on this class.
But this class has access to the fields and methods within the vehicle class.
Okay.
So if we look at Mike.
Of BMW.
That BMW belongs to the vehicle class.
But by creating a car object, I'm able to call.
The get make method.
And the rev method.
Use in the car object because the car object extends or the car class extends the vehicle class.
That's why I'm able to output the following, because the car object has access to the methods of the
vehicle class.
And that is the key points of inheritance.
By using the extends keyword, we can have access to the attributes and methods of another class for
which the class extends.
So take this can be quite confusing if this is quite new to you.
But you'll see how important this concept is when we come to create in our frameworks.
But the main purpose of this is not only to have access to the attributes and methods of another class,
but is to prevent repetitive code.
So using this concept, we can reuse code.
So I hope you found this lecture useful and I look forward to speaking to you in the next.